What is HTTP 1.1?
The Hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) is a data communication protocol and acts as a foundation of the world wide web.
This was the first usable language which was created in 1997. It went through several stages of development, this first version of HTTP was called as HTTP/1.1 and this version is still in use on web.

What is HTTP/2?
HTTP released a new version in 2015 which is HTTP/2. This solves the several problems that the creators of HTTP/1.1 did not anticipate.
In particular, HTTP 2 is much faster and more efficient than HTTP/1.1. One of the ways in which HTTP/2 is faster is in how it prioritizes content during the loading process.

HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 main differences

Prioritization: Prioritization refers to the order in which pieces of content are loaded. Prioritization affects a webpage's load time.
For example, certain resources, like large JavaScript files, may block the rest of the page from loading if they have to load first.
More of the page can load at once if these render-blocking resources load last.In HTTP/2, developers have hands-on, detailed control over prioritization.
This allows them to maximize perceived and actual page load speed to a degree that was not possible in HTTP/1.1. HTTP/2 offers a feature called weighted prioritization.
This allows developers to decide which page resources will load first, every time.

Multiplexing: HTTP/1.1 loads resources one after the other, so if one resource cannot be loaded, it blocks all the other resources behind it.
In contrast, HTTP/2 is able to use a single TCP connection to send multiple streams of data at once so that no one resource blocks any other resource.
HTTP/2 does this by splitting data into binary-code messages and numbering these messages so that the client knows which stream each binary message belongs to.

Server Push: Typically, a server only serves content to a client device if the client asks for it. However, this approach is not always practical for modern webpages,
which often involve several dozen separate resources that the client must request. HTTP/2 solves this problem by allowing a server to "push" content to a client before the client asks for it.
The server also sends a message letting the client know what pushed content to expect – like if Bob had sent Alice a Table of Contents of his novel before sending the whole thing.

Header Compression: mall files load more quickly than large ones. To speed up web performance, both HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 compress HTTP messages to make them smaller.
However, HTTP/2 uses a more advanced compression method called HPACK that eliminates redundant information in HTTP header packets. This eliminates a few bytes from every HTTP packet.
Given the volume of HTTP packets involved in loading even a single webpage, those bytes add up quickly, resulting in faster loading.

Conclusion: HTTP is an extensible protocol that is easy to use. The client-server structure, combined with the ability to add headers, allows HTTP to advance along with
the extended capabilities of the Web.Though HTTP/2 adds some complexity by embedding HTTP messages in frames to improve performance, the basic structure of messages has stayed the same since HTTP/1.0. 
Session flow remains basic, allowing it to be investigated and debugged with a HTTP network monitor.

Http Methods - HTTP defines a set of request methods to indicate the desired actions to be performed for a given resources.
Although they can also be nouns, these request methods are sometimes referred to as HTTP verbs. Each of them implements a different semantic, 
but some common features are shared by a group of them. The few mentioned methods are listed below
1. GET - The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource.Requests using GET should only retrieve data.
2.HEAD - The HEAD method asks for a response identical to a GET request, but without the response body.
3.POST - The POST method submits an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.
4. PUT - The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
5.DELETE - The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.
6.CONNECT - The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource.
7.OPTIONS - The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.
8.TRACE - The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
9.PATCH - The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.
